add additional mgmt config parameters (#6921)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: site/content/installation/installing-nic/create-license-secret.md

---

> docs: DOCS-602
> title: Create a License Secret 
> toc: true
> weight: 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create a License Secret 
toc: true
weight: 100
docs: DOCS-000
```

The `docs`: value is a unique code: it should be left a placeholder for now (DocOps has automation stuff around it).

---

This document explains how to create and use a license secret for NGINX Ingress Controller. 

# Overview

NGINX Plus Ingress Controller requires a valid JSON Web Token (JWT) to download the container image from the F5 registry. From version 4.0.0, this JWT token is also required to run NGINX Plus.

This requirement is part of F5’s broader licensing program and aligns with industry best practices. The JWT will streamline subscription renewals and usage reporting, helping you manage your NGINX Plus subscription more efficiently. The [telemetry](#telemetry) data we collect helps us improve our products and services to better meet your needs.

The JWT is required for validating your subscription and reporting telemetry data. For environments connected to the internet, telemetry is automatically sent to F5’s licensing endpoint.  In offline environments, telemetry is routed through [NGINX Instance Manager](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-instance-manager/). By default usage is reported every hour and also whenever NGINX is reloaded.

> {{< note >}}See [here](https://docs.nginx.com/solutions/about-subscription-licenses/#for-internet-connected-environments) for a list of IPs associated with F5's licensing endpoint (`product.connect.nginx.com`).{{</ note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} Read the [subscription licenses topic](https://docs.nginx.com/solutions/about-subscription-licenses/#for-internet-connected-environments) for a list of IPs associated with F5's licensing endpoint (`product.connect.nginx.com`). {{</ note >}}
```

We try to avoid having links that simply say "here" since there is an extra cognitive effort around contextualizing what it could be referring to: best to be explicit.

## Set up the JWT

{{< include "installation/download-jwt.md" >}}

The JWT needs to be configured before deploying NGINX Ingress Controller. The JWT will be stored in a Kubernetes Secret of type `nginx.com/license`, and can be created with the following command.

```shell
kubectl create secret generic license-token --from-file=license.jwt=<path-to-your-jwt> --type=nginx.com/license -n <Your Namespace> 
```
You can now delete the downloaded `.jwt` file.

{{< note >}}
The Secret needs to be in the same Namespace as the NGINX Ingress Controller Pod(s).
{{</ note >}}

> {{< include "installation/jwt-password-note.md" >}}
> ### Using the NGINX Plus License Secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< include "installation/jwt-password-note.md" >}}

### Use the NGINX Plus license Secret
```

If using a name other than the default `license-token`, provide the name of this Secret when installing NGINX Ingress Controller:

{{<tabs name="plus-secret-install">}}

{{%tab name="Helm"%}}

Specify the Secret name using the `controller.mgmt.licenseTokenSecretName` helm value.

> For detailed guidance on creating the Management block via Helm, refer to the [Helm Configuration Documentation]({{< relref "installation/installing-nic/installation-with-helm/#configuration" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed guidance on creating the Management block via Helm, refer to the [Helm configuration documentation]({{< relref "installation/installing-nic/installation-with-helm/#configuration" >}}).
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{%tab name="Manifests"%}}

Specify the Secret name in the `license-token-secret-name` Management ConfigMap key.

For detailed guidance on creating the Management ConfigMap, refer to the [Management ConfigMap Resource Documentation]({{< relref "configuration/global-configuration/mgmt-configmap-resource/" >}}).

{{% /tab %}}

{{</tabs>}}

**If you are reporting to the default licensing endpoint, then you can now proceed with [installing NGINX Ingress Controller]({{< relref "installation/installing-nic/" >}}). Otherwise, follow the steps below to configure reporting to NGINX Instance Manager.**

> ### Reporting to NGINX Instance Manager {#nim}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reports for NGINX Instance Manager {#nim}
```

If you are deploying NGINX Ingress Controller in an "air-gapped" environment you will need to report to NGINX Instance Manager (NIM) instead of the default licensing endpoint.

First, you must specify the endpoint of your NGINX Instance Manager:

{{<tabs name="nim-endpoint">}}

{{%tab name="Helm"%}}

Specify the endpoint using the `controller.mgmt.usageReport.endpoint` helm value.

{{% /tab %}}

{{%tab name="Manifests"%}}

Specify the endpoint in the `usage-report-endpoint` Management ConfigMap key.

{{% /tab %}}

{{</tabs>}}

> #### Configuring SSL Certificates and SSL Trusted Certificates {#nim-cert}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure SSL certificates and SSL trusted certificates {#nim-cert}
```

> To configure SSL Certificates and/or SSL Trusted Certificate, a few extra steps are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure SSL certificates or SSL trusted certificates, extra steps are necessary.
```

Reviewer: In context they seem mutually exclusive. Inclusive or is often hard to fix without rewriting sentences.

> To use Client Auth with NIM, first create a Secret of type `kubernetes.io/tls` in the Namespace that the NIC Pod(s) are in. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Client Auth with NGINX Instance Manager, first create a Secret of type `kubernetes.io/tls` in the same namespace as the NGINX Ingress Controller pods. 
```

Reviewer: The user may or may not have multiple, but using plural should not create confusion and is clearer language.

```shell
kubectl create secret tls ssl-certificate --cert=<path-to-your-client.pem> --key=<path-to-your-client.key> -n <Your Namespace>
```

> To provide a SSL Trusted Certificate, and an optional Certificate Revocation List, create a Secret of type `nginx.org/ca` in the Namespace that the NIC Pod(s) are in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide a SSL trusted certificate, and an optional Certificate Revocation List, create a Secret of type `nginx.org/ca` in the Namespace that the NIC Pod(s) are in.
```

```shell
kubectl create secret generic ssl-trusted-certificate \
   --from-file=ca.crt=<path-to-your-ca.crt> \
   --from-file=ca.crl=<path-to-your-ca.crl> \ # optional
   --type=nginx.org/ca
```

> Providing an optional CRL will configure the [`ssl_crl`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_mgmt_module.html#ssl_crl) directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providing an optional CRL (certificate revocation list) will configure the [`ssl_crl`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_mgmt_module.html#ssl_crl) directive.
```

{{<tabs name="nim-secret-install">}}

{{%tab name="Helm"%}}

> Specify the SSL Certificate Secret name using the `controller.mgmt.sslCertificateSecretName` helm value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the SSL certificate Secret name using the `controller.mgmt.sslCertificateSecretName` Helm value. 
```

> Specify the SSL Trusted Certificate Secret name using the `controller.mgmt.sslTrustedCertificateSecretName` helm value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the SSL trusted certificate Secret name using the `controller.mgmt.sslTrustedCertificateSecretName` Helm value.
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{%tab name="Manifests"%}}

> Specify the SSL Certificate Secret name in the `ssl-certificate-secret-name` Management ConfigMap key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the SSL certificate Secret name in the `ssl-certificate-secret-name` management ConfigMap key.
```

> Specify the SSL Trusted Certificate Secret name in the `ssl-trusted-certificate-secret-name` Management ConfigMap key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the SSL trusted certificate Secret name in the `ssl-trusted-certificate-secret-name` management ConfigMap key.
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{</tabs>}}

<br>

> **Once these Secrets are created and configuration options are set, you can now [install NGINX Ingress Controller ]({{< relref "installation/installing-nic" >}}).**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Once these Secrets are created and configured, you can now [install NGINX Ingress Controller ]({{< relref "installation/installing-nic" >}}).**
```

> ## What’s reported and how it’s protected {#telemetry}

Reviewer: Is this the same information as https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/overview/product-telemetry/ ? If so, I'd update that page.

It seems like it would be best to have this information somewhere more visible and reference it from the document, rather than have it exist purely here.
